I have so far read through work of saeed mahlojifar and fatma betül durak. The main motivation oriented from these two works especially. Altough the section names and name of the work are inetersting and captivating the inherent structure and topics are a little off of my intutition towards this topic. In work of saeed mahlojifar -ok from now on im shortening this to saed and betül duraks work to durak- the thing is altough i am being a little arrogant here with no work I have done so far in the field whereas saed has like 6 or 8 papers when I started in the university and currently publishing like 8 papers per year in this topic, the work was poor respect to notion I have structured in my mind. The work first things first gives a wrong basis on the attack scenario where the attack scenarios are in fact the objectives of main practical attacks a existing in the current literature i mean the literature that they have at theti time ç. at the time they had like evasion type of attacks and poisoning type of attacks where he says in one we have an adversary in inference time and in another we have an adversary in training time respectivelyç. but the thing is that lets design the following secenario where we have and an adversary that somehwo transitions the trainingdata or like training algorithm so that in the end everything or like a subset of the input even for an hıonest query produce a backdoored example i mean is hthis a training time algorithm or a n inference time wait i mean it is still backdoor but ok lets s lets leave it and equip the work of sh goldwasser et al on planting undetectable backforors which is a posiioning attack but the thing is that it can only be triggered in inference time that is to say for making it to work we need an evasion time i mean inference time evasion and in fact a cryptographicallty securely generated train sorry inference time key to trigger this backfdoor poison. I mean examples can be given as a critique agains thtis taxonomy. What I have in my mind instead of this is that instead of going for all attack types one by one let us define games and by games I mean adversaries. This way we will be flexible on the definition and a capabiliries of the adversary ie we will cover all possible ones like i mean this is like instead of desinging a differential cryptanalysis game and considering defense countermeasures against it we can desing a game so that adversary observes input output paris or acitvelt generating input output pairs of its choice hence this way we will likewise cover all polynomially boundede adversaries against our security objective. But one important thing here is to well define this game i mean what would be a meaningful and comprehensive game is far from being a trivial question. The resone we call CPA game semantic security is of no ease on thinkgin but an elegeant intellectual output. Ok enough yapping on this what i want to say in the end of story is that we need games like well deinfed games that are comprehensively captuing all meangingful adversaries, by meaningful what i have in my mind is the learning adverasyreies in fact that i waill hopefully explain later on. This LLM tyoe of thinging is not bad actaully i am spending so less energy that may be a good sign that LLMs bmay be spending too little enrgy thi desipit e to their large computational overhead. Ok returning to our topic lets see what we hace as a second "meaningful feedback" on the saeds paper about hes research proposal that he has written in 10992 2019. Anyways my second note is i mean infact the same thing , the adversary consideration is constrained on amount of change adversary can made on the input i mean make on the input. But this is also not saying much of a thing about adversaries capabiliteies in terms of its computational demand expected from them on finding better tosa say adchieve his objective. For example we have adversary to be constrained on the aomount of bits that it can chenage very well but lets say we have the worlds most stupied model that is already plainting a bcakfdoor and changint he sign of decision when we switch the first input of evector and this is written in tehe models card lets say ie given to adversary or trivailly realizibel with something like a residual connection or even can be seen by cehcing the weights for example possibilities are infinite with no bound on adversaries capabilities we ondont even knwo wheter it is assumed to be polynomial or not maybe it can check exponentially many queries at efficient time and notive all results, eyet there may be another adverasy that is the on described in goldwassers paper again athat is allowed to change the input arbitrarily but cannot achieve the backdoor in polynomial time and queries. So the things comes to my mind more meaningful is to constrain on the second one, but practically realization is feeling more closer to firs t one i coudlnot decied on this yet but i am far closer or much more closed closer i dont know im not naative in this language in language on the second option on polynomially computationally bounding the aversary or ilike statistically bounding the adversary or even may be give another definition on learning and learning bound or elearnably bound the adversary or so in this sense the adverary that in the end we will have a more robust understnadning on what cna be done. Because giving input constraints does not say much to me when i deploy my model as i expect anything like of course i can constrain the inputs to be epsilon close to the inputs I have selected but still that does not feel like it due sto reasons i have accounted abouve. Note hath i am being highl y sarcastic by saying i am giving constuctual feedback on the sork of sared i highly respect to him explaining and delving tdeep into these topics years before that came to my mind. like it is also fair to note that when he was writing this i am tkaing unnecessary courses in a respectively nowhere city in my high school but anyways i respect thim the onyl thing i am doing here is to better undesrtand the field create. a thery and look for a n meaningful gap in the literature on understanding thsi. ropt topic. Yeah its been w a while let me remember where I wans. Ok well the thing is that he did not have proper approach on the topic due to his adversary consideration. The adversary in my mind plays a CPA like game, for example we need to define a class of securities that are not necessarly parallel such as a security game may involve dataset privacy, whereas another one may consider a model weights privacy which twoa re highly entangled yet there is no need to make them fit in a single adversaies considerationsand aeven the game may be highly orthogonal like making a model i mean assuring a model produces correct ouputs with zero knowledge or so like a verification of computation arpppraoch. Nevertheless he also notes that along with his results on PPT adversary that best existing lower bounds on poswer of info theoretic and comp bounded adversaries are equal for a metric probability space in his series of work. Like for this what i think is thatwe are in the cryptographies state of transition from shannons theory to reduction based theory on comutational compelexity. The thing is that we i mean the reson we cannot distinguish bounds fron on lstatisical and information theoretic adversaries and PPT adversaries does not mean that a relaxtion on the PPT adversary does not give any emanginful results there are tons of exponential and even far beyond harder computational problems in learning on optimization th is not there yet we cannot finned theöm. and frankly I believe that we cannot find those or have not searched for these differences on results. One thing to note for me here for later work is that the resason we cannot find such adversarial defintiions is that a search query is not exponential in a learning problem yet we approixmate and happy with the result. So there are two tings search space is bigger than exponential and we are happy with approximations, so one needs to account this while desining a PPT like adversairal relatisre relaxation that for example the one I conjectured namely the learning adversary. Tha t is to say has a consideration and bound on this larger space of explaoration and an approixmation in objective . Later on he considers training time attacks in his paper that are he says another category oh i see he considers backdoor as a poison then seems more fair now. He cla indicates that there are two types o f adversaries on his consideration that are random tampering adversaires and ones who can choose tampering locations. Again this similarly does not capture the first of all practical scenario on poisnoning there is no random rtampering adversary comes to my mind and if it can tamper it can tamper anyhow he like at best in terms of security up to a distance. The real posioning happens with complete addition of data on the training dataset. He also mentions byzantine setting too and shows the exact same results another a lemma reasult like 10th time. His work on robustness also has cryptographic aspects he says and shows nice. He says his work developed worst case robustness in machine learning which in fact did not but gave nice results in an info theoretic viewpoint. As he also states this way his results are implications of high dimensional probability. Along with the security notions he discussed he very nicely states that there is also notion of fairness and privacy which also need to be take account which i think important. And he finishes with promise that he will bu,ild more birdiges in between crypto and ML. Yeah I think it is a good time to transition on the work of Durak et al. —Side Note  Now listening to conference of ersin uzun what came to my mind similar to my talk with abdullah hoca is that given an ai generated video if we add a checksum mask for ai watermarking this will be diminished by the second recording attack due to alignment etc, hence the security should also come from understanding and learning the fake but the inherent oxymoron is that decision can be as hard as generation but i mean learnign can is also not representation invariant and problem is ill defined here a little— ok returning again to duraks paper what i think first in foremost is that they are further to me compared to saed, and i think they understood the field poorer and i have a few critical questions in my mind. First of all there is no in general understanding of the learning statistical learning deep elarning as how ever you call it and a pretty wrong approach to LLMs as a specified choice in their security formalization. Ok after the takk with ersin hoca I have made my thinking furhter crystal clear that I should not explain everything to everyone or at least try explaining everything to everyone due to peoples prior beliefs and background knwoledge and understanding of the field. Note to self always note that this field is highly controversional vo controversial with demand on understanding statistical learning and comutation theory/cryptography. Anyways let us continue with the work of duraketal. One nice thing to note that they do notr start as bad as the paper by noting that one needs a consideartion based on computational ptrimitives of agentic systems yet this considearition is still far from a constructive and basic understanding. They also have a nice motivation identfying existing permissioning proposals remain difficult to compare. They say that they will be construciting an attack taxonomy tailored to language models. And develop a formal treatment of agentic access control by defining an AIOracle they say that is alghrotimically amd introduce a security game framewoek that will capture completeness ie will achieve the objective yet remain secure. They also indicate that they will stick with complexity theory and use reduction based proofs but I couldnot see any valid one yet a pile of discussion on skeptic existing on a high skepticism bunch of things. I have noted down that for insttruciton based security human instructions inherently have loops and circular dependencies which can be abused and formal privacy guarantees like constintutions are also a option yet there is no copmlete one and also one cannot still guarantee respect to an arbitrary adversary. They criticize the state then by indicating theat current secrutiy notions are biased otwards success of the model i mean success on the attention and assume or implicity assume to defect some concerns reaised against this statement. They leave adversaries objective as “unexpected behvaiour” this is one thing that one needs to raise a concern when talking about reduction proofs. Then they transition directly to security buy giving every adversary a negligable advanteage. Then they give their work and contributions . After yapping they move on with AIOracle idea . The problem here is that they overly abstract some critical arparts such as data,  training set and inference i mean what is left right They define AIOracle ain a similar way with INFER and LEARN algorithms they talk about usefulness and a predicate on the correctness but all of these are far from being formal keep going bakc and forth between the authors favorite book i guess. Later on I couldnot stand the discussion and directly jumped to section 6 where they discuss abotu their I mean giving their formalism on AIOracles. Again seeing the hitchikers guide to the galaxy I have noticed certain things about the paper, anyways they state that the AIoracle has generate data from source has a predicate yet this is not implementable yet we wil use it hopefully and model will learn from generate data from source yet again source is never mentioned again. It just looks fine, interesting type of formalism we be talking about here. Today I have seen an engineering treating the LLM as processor, an agent harness as an OS and a skill as a programme which invoke the idea in my head in a more clear way that wheter we can treat this ML models as abstract amchines and approach the situation as a manner of computation theory. That is to say how can we treat a statistical model producing a result as a turing machine or should we treat it as a turing machine what notion do we have here that is turing complete or are we really computing something here meaningfully as per our understanding. If we were to answer these questions not only we will have the idea of security here but more transcnedantally we will understand a lot of notion in the realm of computation such as asymptotocailly how is learning happening or when is learning happening. Is there a class or a language for learning how should we treat these notions right.?